# Run AI on your PC locally like a **PRO**!!!

Here I will list all that I find interesting about running an AI model locally.

## AI models

First of all - what is an AI model anyways? This is not a real *AGI* like what we all  think it is. An AGI that is actually better than humans in all kind of diferent aspects but it will use up so much resources (GPUs, CPUs, NPUs, electricity, water, ect) that we can't even possibaly concieve the idea of doing so, we're just not anywhere near there yet. We're talking about LLM's, just one small aspect of (in the far future) an AGI, there's also image and audio recognition types, picture, audio and video generating types, automobile self-driving ones, ect.. A simulation of one small aspect of our brains let's say. We've known how to train LLM's and other types AI for 60 years or so, weve done it before, read up - interesting stuff. It's all hype for AI companies to boost their stocks, investments and loans on the news and the internet. These AI models are just AI's trained by different people or companies, with diferent data, in diferent ways, like ChatGPT, Bard, ect. so we can ask it for a cookie recepe or to fix our code, most times unsuccessfully.

Never the less, it's still some verry interesting and usefull technology that we've all integrated into our lives for good or for worse in the past 2 years. And I don't know about you, but I don't like the idea one bit of major companies, as always, giving us a technology or service for free to mine our data and habbits to learn more about us that we know ourselfs, to keep, sell, use, analise, give to companies and goverments forever with the goal being control and manipulation. As we all know from Snowden - if they can, they will! What if an evil dictatorship rises in a once "democratic" country and they use that data to know everything about us and our habbits, so they can class and number us as whatever and dictate our lives in a harmful way. Let's say North Korea takes over the south and implements a social credit system, like in China, and then put you and 3 generations of your family in a labor camp just because you've watched gay porn 20 years ago and have asked ChatGPT "How to ... a man" or what ever. This is an extreme example, but take social media as and example, They want to keep you glued to the service, slot-machiening your brains dopamine, making you a consumer, and making you think you have free range of all types of neutrally delivered news and information, when in reality the Zuck made you vote for Biden or whatever, meanwhile separating you from your friends and family while "connecting people". It's already happening, we just don't admit it, because we're all "perfect" and "unique" with no capabilities of critical thinking anymore, it's a lost art - something any reasonable person used to do!

But ChatGPT, Bard, and the other shitbots are not your only options. Welcome to the world of local AI on your own local and offline PC. Go to [huggingface.co](https://www,huggingface.co). This is a comunity for providing and sharing AI models. There are a ton of models there: 727 000 for now and growing. Keep this site in mind for later. First we need to download [Ollama](https://www.ollama.ai) from their website. We can use this software to run many of the pretrained models you see listed on huggingface.co, like *llama3*, *llama2-uncensored*, *starcoder2*, *mixtral*, ect.. They also have a list of models to chose, pick and download which one you think you will need. As long as you have a solar panel and your laptop, you can survive in the wild or start civilisation once again. You can also train it with you own data or notes, but I'm not gonna do that for now.

## Fabric

Fabric is a tool we can get from GitHub that we can use to pipe any text (like a Youtube transcrypt or a book even), and then feed it to an AI model like Lamma3 to do a well instructed task: like make a proper summary of the text in A format with B stile quotes, C summary, ect. automaticaly. There we have a huge collection of specific prompts that are carefully written out to give proper and exact instruction to the AI, so that it actualy does what we want, in the format that we want.

Fabric is basically a collection of .md files with instructions for the ai how to fufill a task, like: "Think deeply..., Take a step back, think step-by-step about how you will give step 1,2,3...". You are basically talking to it like a human, wierdly enough. You can use the prebuild ones or make your own prompts.

Think about how you will do that with ChatGPT? you go to your browser, load the website, manage through the GUI, maybe load up a conversation with instructions from before, even though it's memory isn't infite from a timeline view... This is a tool to reduce friction.
